README.md, before:

# JupiRSW

This is a rotating shallow water model for studying vortices at a planet's pole.


https://github.com/Adrien-Cb/JupiRSW/assets/130017358/4483151a-a1b7-42d5-8c36-23c77cf84599


*Work in progress*

## Install

### Libraries 

JupiRSW uses **NumPy**, **Xarray**, **SciPy** and **Matplotlib**.

### ffmpeg

**ffmpeg** is required to save animations as MP4. 
There are many builds available, you can for instance get one [here](https://www.gyan.dev/ffmpeg/builds/).
Once installed, add the path to the ffmpeg executable in `config.py`:
```python
FFMPEG_PATH = R'C:\ffmpeg\bin\ffmpeg.exe'
```

## References and credits

The RK3 scheme implementation is taken from [PyRSW](https://github.com/pvthinker/pyRSW)

The configuration of JupiRSW is based on:

*Li C, Ingersoll AP, Klipfel AP, Brettle H. Modeling the stability of polygonal patterns of vortices at the poles of Jupiter as revealed by the Juno spacecraft. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Sep 29;117(39):24082-24087. doi: 10.1073/pnas.2008440117. Epub 2020 Sep 8. PMID: 32900956; PMCID: PMC7533696.*

Commit message:

Set cmcrameri as optional, more README and TODO

README.md, after:

# JupiRSW

This is a rotating shallow water model for studying vortices at a planet's pole.


https://github.com/Adrien-Cb/JupiRSW/assets/130017358/4483151a-a1b7-42d5-8c36-23c77cf84599


*Work in progress*

## Functionalities

- Save/load results as NetCDF.
- Plot animations, save them as MP4 or GIF.
- Set initial vortex latitudes and number.

```python
m = Model(150)
m.initialize(vort_lat=[90, 80, 70], vort_number=[1, 5, 1])
m.run('1y')

plot.show_var_anim(m, 'pv', title='Potential vorticity', save_as='mp4', filename='anim')
```


## Install

### Libraries 

JupiRSW uses **NumPy**, **Xarray**, **SciPy** and **Matplotlib**. 

### ffmpeg

**ffmpeg** is required to save animations as MP4. 
There are many builds available, you can for instance get one [here](https://www.gyan.dev/ffmpeg/builds/).
Once installed, add the path to the ffmpeg executable in `config.py`:
```python
FFMPEG_PATH = R'C:\ffmpeg\bin\ffmpeg.exe'
```
Animations can still be saved as GIFs without ffmpeg.

### Optional install

I recommend using the [**cmcrameri**](https://pypi.org/project/cmcrameri/) module for pretty, perceptually uniform, colorblind-friendly colormaps. 
This install is optional.


## References and credits

The RK3 scheme implementation is taken from [PyRSW](https://github.com/pvthinker/pyRSW).

The configuration of JupiRSW is based on:

*Li C, Ingersoll AP, Klipfel AP, Brettle H. Modeling the stability of polygonal patterns of vortices at the poles of Jupiter as revealed by the Juno spacecraft. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Sep 29;117(39):24082-24087. doi: 10.1073/pnas.2008440117. Epub 2020 Sep 8. PMID: 32900956; PMCID: PMC7533696.*
